.TH SRE Checklist 7 2019-03-22 "SRE Checklist" "Nicolas Lamirault"
.SH NAME
SRE \- Checklist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
Checklist to analyse a Linux system
.SH NOTE
.PP
See: http://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2016-05-04/srecon2016-perf-checklists-for-sres.html
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Commands to check Linux system

.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------

.SH PERFORMANCE

.SS uptime
.PP
Load average

.SS dmesg -T | tail
.PP
Kernel errors

.SS vmstat 1
.PP
Overall stats by time

.SS mpstat -P ALL 1
.PP
CPU balance

.SS pidstat 1
.PP
process usage

.SS iostat -xz 1
.PP
Disk I/O

.SS free -m
.PP
Memory usage

.SS sar -n DEV 1
.PP
Network I/O

.SS sar -n TCP,ETCP 1
.PP
TCP stats

.SS top
.PP
Check overview


.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------

.SH DISK

.SS iostat -xz 1
.PP
Any disk I/O? if not, stop looking

.SS vmstat 1
.PP
Is this swapping? or, high sys time?

.SS df -h
.PP
Are file systems nearly full?

.SS ext4slower 10
.PP
(zfs*, xfs*, etc.) slow file system I/O?

.SS bioslower 10
If so, check disks

.SS ext4dist 1
.PP
Check distribution and rate

.SS biolatency 1
.PP
If interesting, check disks

.SS cat /sys/devices/…/ioerr_cnt
.PP
If available, errors

.SS smartctl -l error /dev/sda1
.PP
If available, errors

.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------

.SH NETWORK

.SS sar -n DEV,EDEV 1
.PP
at interface limits? or use nicstat

.SS sar -n TCP,ETCP 1
.PP
active/passive load, retransmit rate

.SS cat /etc/resolv.conf
.PP
it's always DNS

.SS mpstat -P ALL 1
.PP
high kernel time? single hot CPU?

.SS tcpretrans
.PP
what are the retransmits? state?

.SS tcpconnect
.PP
connecting to anything unexpected?

.SS tcpaccept
.PP
unexpected workload?

.SS netstat -rnv
.PP
any inefficient routes?

.SS check firewall config
.PP
anything blocking/throttling?

.SS netstat -s
.PP
play 252 metric pickup

.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------

.SH CPU

.SS uptime
.PP
load averages

.SS vmstat 1
.PP
system-wide utilization, run q length

.SS mpstat -P ALL 1
CPU balance

.SS pidstat
.PP
per-process CPU

.SS CPU flame graph
.PP
CPU profiling

.SS CPU subsecond offset heat map
.PP
look for gaps

.SS perf stat -a -- sleep 10
.PP
IPC, LLC hit ratio


.SH SEE ALSO
.I \%https://nicolas.lamirault.xyz
